High in the next few videos we're going to look at the numeric types in Python.
So basically how we can represent numbers in Python.
So very quickly we have four main types of numbers.
We have the integers which are basically zero plus or minus one plus or minus two plus or minus three
etc. So basically all the integral numbers from minus infinity to plus infinity.
Although obviously we can go to infinity in the computer there has to be a finite limit and that's represented
by the Python type and then we have rational numbers which is represented in mathematical terms by this
fancy little Q and that is basically fractions of the form p q where p and q are integer numbers and
Q is not equal to zero.
I want to make sure that you understand that these are fractions but fractions of integers not fractions
of let's say pi over 3.
That is not a rational number.
OK that's not a regular fraction because pi is not an integer.
And that's represented by the fraction object that's in the fractions module.
Then we have real numbers real numbers of the numbers.
We're used to working with every day.
You know 0 is a real number.
Minus One is a real number 0.1 to divide one third.
Pi e.
All those are regular real numbers represented by the symbol R and those can be represented in two different
ways in Python.
Usually the most common one is to use a float.
That's kind of the default that we have in Python.
But we can also use the decimal class in the decimal module when we want to have more control over the
precision of those numbers and we'll look at that in detail as well.
Lastly we have complex numbers which are of the form A plus B Iowa a and b are real numbers.
They're basically numbers that have a real power and an imaginary pounce.
And in python we can use the complex data type and we would write it as let's say three plus for J.
So we'll get to that as well in a upcoming video so you'll notice that the integers are a subset of
the rationals.
The rationals are a subset of the reals and the reals are a subset of the complex numbers.
So it goes from the smallest set to the biggest set.
Now the one thing that's different about Python is that it introduces actually a fifth data type that
is also considered a numeric type and those are the Boolean truth values and it does that basically
by saying that 0 is considered false and one is considered true.
So the boolean data type exists and we can use these names.
True and False but in fact behind the scenes there are just two numbers 0 and 1.
So really in Python We have five main times of numbers and we will look at each one of those in some
detail.
In the upcoming videos.
Thanks for watching.